David's lecture on Complexity

Lecture on Complexity. The number of core you have determines how many things
you can do at the same time? 

The highest exponent is what is going to blow up on us. 

Big O only cares about the highest exponent. 

Dictionary is a constant look up time. O(1). Zack (the student) seems to know
about this stuff. 

O(log(n)) is something that starts out slow but evens out after a while and so
is not too bad. 

Complexity is a characteristic of the algorithm. Performance is about your
hardware.  

Nested loops: we go through a loop n times and each of those goes through a
nested loop m times. So we have O(mn) complexity. 

Big O is worst case, not average case. 

There is a trade-off between flexibility and performance with data structures.
The list is the most flexible and the least performant. 

List: 
Mutable, mixed-type

bad for a lot of floating point numbers. Use an array. There is a python array
but the thing about an array is that it has the same type of data. 

Constantly removing or adding things, especially from in the middle. Or you have
to add or remove from the opposite ends of the list. Use a deque. Can add pop or
push from either end. 

tuple is a lot faster when looking up so you use it if you don't have to mutate
it. 

Tuples can have multiple types. 

Dicitonaries have a lot of memory overhead because you have to store the whole
hash table. Lists can just store pointers to the data. 

Conda environment

One of those things you wish you knew before hand. 

Virtual environments, little containers for your programs and dependencies. Have
different versions of python. 

$conda create -n python3.5

$ source activate python3.5

$ source deactivate
gets you out of the environment

$ conda env list 
Shows all of your environments



We install the conda install nb.notebook and it makes jupyter notebook able to
open and choose new environments. Kernell and environment seem to be synonyms.
What is the difference between a kernel and an environment? 

I am still not sure I know what I am doing with all this. 
